---
layout: single
author_profile: true
title: Intro to ML
toc: false
toc_label: ""
toc_icon: "fas fa-toilet-paper-slash"
---

I have given some guidance to colleagues and interested parties on where to
start their exploration of Machine learning / deep learning methods over the
last few years. I thought I might make a few notes for others who may be
interested in become machine learning practitioners.

This is not a guide, but I hope to be able to act like a great filter and
direct you in a helpful direction for you to take your first steps.

What you may or may not already know varies widely. With that in mind, I have
three places you could start depending on how comfortable you are with
programming and mathematics respectively.

Within programming the abilities and ideas that I think are most useful are as
follows:
 - _Code for reading:_ Reading code is way more common than writting code, so
 make yours readable even if it takes more time to write!
 - _Ask for help:_ Google specific ideas when you're stuck. It's not cheating.
 Use stack overflow, kaggle and other forums to see examples of other peoples
 solutions and start to get an idea of what you dont know. Why would you not
 learn from much more experienced programmers / engineers?
 - _Have fun:_ Practicing is important and if you're not going to have fun, you
 are unlikely to practice. Enjoying the process is important, and if its enough
 for you to know youre learning great! If you aren't that person, then look for
 something that excites you and try that!

 Within Mathematics the ideas I find most useful are:
 - _Multivariate statistics:_ How high dimensionsional things can (be)
 change(d).
 - _Linear Algebra:_ The math behind high dimensions.
 - _Statistics:_ The math behind decisions.

In an ideal world, we all know everything. Sadly, I dont have the time for that
and I doubt you do either. To save time, especially with the __math__, there are
things you can do. Online courses in each of these concepts (likely free
on youtube), or even talks / lectures on individual ideas are a great way to
freshen up and get the gist of what is going on.

If you are new to programming, there are many many courses online. The place I have suggested for people in the past, is Kaggle. Kaggle is a great resource not just to compete in data science competitions, but to find code that others wrote, read it, understand it, get some insight into how data scientists are thinking and to apply various approaches themselves. It hosts data and notebooks which you can use to learn almost anything, including how to __program__ and think like a data scientists / ML practitioner.

And that's all I have for you. Most of the learning will come from implementation, so you can leave this site and go try that now. The last nugget of wisdom is more of a reminder than anything else. ML and deep learning methods are data driven. This does not mean they are all the same. Be patient learning different methods / models / tools. Each one might be different enough to look up how they work individually even to help you understand which one to use in which scenario. Good luck!
